The student learning facilities are designed after authentic clinical environments. For example, the Simulated Ward can be configured into a multiple hospital ward where students can perform basic diagnostics and practise doctor-patient interaction. It can also be transformed into an intensive care unit or an accident and emergency ward to simulate everyday hospital scenarios.

At the Practical Skills Lab, students practise various skills from venepuncture (drawing blood) to suturing techniques in hybrid scenarios. Simulated patients who are trained actors are fitted with prosthetic wounds so students get to combine their skills with good communication.

Besides smart classrooms equipped with multiple LED screens, these facilities give students a hands-on approach to learning, preparing them for their careers with realistic training experiences.

Classes at the Clinical Sciences Building started in January this year.

Professor Andersson said, The new Clinical Sciences Building with first-class medical facilities will carve a unique learning environment built around realistic hospital scenarios. This not only helps transition and integrate students into the medical scene but also nurtures a generation of doctors well-versed in using the latest technologies to solve tomorrows healthcare issues.

Together with the seven-storey Experimental Medicine Building at the NTU main campus, which was opened in August 2015, the Clinical Sciences Building forms the dual campus of NTUs Lee Kong Chian School of Medicine (LKCMedicine).

Students spend time at both campuses besides being attached to hospitals and clinics around Singapore. A dedicated shuttle bus ferries students between the two campuses and the majority of the medical students live on the NTU campus.

Merging the classroom with the clinic

The various facilities in the new Clinical Sciences Building are designed to integrate and transition students into hospital and clinical settings.

The Centre for Clinical Simulation, which runs across two floors, houses a configurable Simulated Ward, a Practical Skills Lab and a Communication Suite. Besides being equipped with oxygen mock-up panels and various equipment, the ward can be configured into various settings such as an intensive care unit or emergency room.

Students get hands-on experience, learning clinical skills from suturing a prosthetic wound worn by a simulated patient to managing scenarios, such as stopping uncontrolled bleeding.

The centres Communication Suite has 10 paired consultation rooms, where students hone their doctor-patient interaction skills. Along with simulated patients who are trained to role play and give patient-focused feedback, students learn to develop a deeper understanding of patients ailments and concerns.

The Anatomy Learning Centre supports the learning of intricate structures of the human body. Besides using plastinated specimens (preserved human bodies pledged towards medical education), the centre is also equipped with a resource facility that has over 170 bottled specimens from NTUs partner, Imperial College London.

At the school, students also get to conduct virtual dissections on the Anatomage Table. With the swipe of a finger, the human-size virtual operating table allows students an unprecedented realistic visualisation of full, life-sized body anatomy in 3D.
